statements [`WITH`](ABAPWITH.html) and [`OPEN CURSOR`](ABAPOPEN_CURSOR.html) enable fully dynamic `SELECT` statements, where all clauses except the `INTO` clause and the ABAP-specific additions can be specified in one dynamic token. * If [write accesses](ABENABAP_SQL_WRITING.html) are performed on the data sources read by a `SELECT` loop within the loop, the behavior is database-dependent and undefined. Such accesses should therefore be avoided. * The statement `ENDSELECT` closes all the [reader streams](ABENSELECT_INTO_LOB_HANDLES.html) linked to the `SELECT` loop. * The current [isolation level](ABENDB_ISOLATION.html) determines whether a `SELECT` statement accesses only data released by a [database commit](ABENDB_COMMIT.html) or whether it also accesses unreleased data in a different [database LUW](ABENDATABASE_LUW_GLOSRY.html). * Outside of classes, an obsolete [short form](ABAPSELECT_OBSOLETE.html) can be used for which the target area does not need to be specified using `INTO` or `APPENDING`. The prerequisites here are as follows: all columns are read with [`*`](ABAPSELECT_LIST.html), a single DDIC database table or a single [classic view](ABENDDIC_VIEW_GLOSRY.html) is specified statically after `FROM`, and a [table work area](ABENTABLE_WORK_AREA_GLOSRY.html)\ `data_source` is declared using the statement [`TABLES`](ABAPTABLES.html) for the corresponding DDIC database table or DDIC view. In this case, the system adds the addition `INTO source` to the `SELECT` implicitly. * As well as explicit ABAP SQL reads using `SELECT` loops and [`OPEN CURSOR`](ABAPOPEN_CURSOR.html), the ABAP SQL interface also opens database cursors implicitly in certain situations, such as when loading [buffered](ABENSAP_PUFFERING.html) tables. The runtime error `DBSQL_TOO_MANY_OPEN_CURSOR` can be avoided by not using explicit reads to exploit the maximum number of open database cursors. * The [`INTO` clause](ABAPINTO_CLAUSE.html) as last clause of the `SELECT` statement leads to the [strict mode as of ABAP release 7.40, SP08](ABENABAP_SQL_STRICTMODE_740_SP08.html). * For compatibility reasons, the `INTO` clause can also be specified in front of or after the [`FROM` clause](ABAPFROM_CLAUSE.html) outside the syntax check [strict mode](ABENABAP_SQL_STRICTMODE_760.html) from ABAP release 7.60. The additions [`UP TO`](ABAPSELECT_UP_TO_OFFSET.html), [`OFFSET`](ABAPSELECT_UP_TO_OFFSET.html), and [`abap_options`](ABAPSELECT_OPTIONS.html) can then also be placed in front of or after the `FROM` clause.