# PARAMETERS | ABAP Keyword Documentation

[Short Reference](ABAPPARAMETERS_SHORTREF.html)
    
    
    PARAMETERS {para[(len)]}|{para [LENGTH len]}\   
               [[type_options](ABAPPARAMETERS_TYPE.html)]\   
               [[screen_options](ABAPPARAMETERS_SCREEN.html)]\   
               [[value_options](ABAPPARAMETERS_VALUE.html)]\   
               [[ldb_options](ABAPPARAMETERS_LDB.html)].

Declares a [selection parameter](ABENSELPAR_GLOSRY.html)\ `para` of length `len`. Selection parameters are components of a [selection screen](ABENSELECTION_SCREEN_GLOSRY.html) that are assigned a global elementary data object in the ABAP program and an input field on the selection screen.

The name of the selection parameter `para` can contain a maximum of eight characters. This statement is allowed in the global declaration part of [executable programs](ABENEXECUTABLE_PROGRAM_GLOSRY.html), [function pools](ABENFUNCTION_POOL_GLOSRY.html), and [module pools](ABENMODUL_POOL_GLOSRY.html). In function pools and module pools, the statement is only allowed within the definition of a [standalone selection screen](ABAPSELECTION-SCREEN_DEFINITION.html). In executable programs, the statement is otherwise automatically assigned to the [standard selection screen](ABAPSELECTION-SCREEN_STANDARD.html).

The length `len` can only be specified if the data type specified in [`type_options`](ABAPPARAMETERS_TYPE.html) has a generic length (`c`, `n`, `p`, and `x`). The length `len` must be specified directly as a number or as a numeric constant within the [length range](ABENBUILT_IN_TYPES_COMPLETE.html) defined for the respective type. If `len` is not specified, the length is set to 1 for a generic data type, otherwise it is set to the length of the data type.

The statement `PARAMETERS` has the following effect:

  * The statement declares a global variable (`para`) of the specified length in the program. The type of the data object is specified in [`type_options`](ABAPPARAMETERS_TYPE.html).
  * An identically named input field with a suitable ABAP Dictionary data type is created in a new line at position 35 on the current selection screen. The length of the input field is determined by the length of the selection parameter. The maximum length of the input field is 255. The maximum visible length of the input field is between 39 and 45, depending on the nesting depth in framed blocks. If the length `len` is greater than the maximum visible length, the content is displayed as movable.
  * An automatically generated output field is displayed in the first available position to the left of the input field as a description with a length between 23 and 30, depending on the nesting depth in framed blocks. The output field contains either the name of the selection parameter `para` or the selection text to which the selection parameter is assigned in the text elements of the program. If the user requests a field help or input help in the output field by pressing F1 or F4, the same output appears as when the input field itself is selected.
  * The properties of the elements on the selection screen can be modified in [`screen_options`](ABAPPARAMETERS_SCREEN.html) and with the statement [`SELECTION-SCREEN`](ABAPSELECTION-SCREEN.html).
  * Before the selection screen is sent, the content of the `para` data object is transported to the input field on the selection screen and a [conversion exit](ABENCONVERSION_EXIT_GLOSRY.html) may be executed. If the length of the selection parameter is greater than 255, the content is truncated from the right. Settings can be configured for the content of the input field in [`value_options`](ABAPPARAMETERS_VALUE.html). After a user action on the selection screen, the content of the input field is transported to the data object and the content of character-like fields is converted to uppercase by default. A [conversion exit](ABENCONVERSION_EXIT_GLOSRY.html) may then be executed. Various [selection screen events](ABAPAT_SELECTION-SCREEN_EVENTS.html) are raised after the transport.
  * If selection parameters are defined in the selection include of a [logical database](ABENLOGICAL_DATA_BASE_GLOSRY.html), further [`ldb_options`](ABAPPARAMETERS_LDB.html) additions are necessary or possible.

  * If a selection parameter is given data using [`SUBMIT`](ABAPSUBMIT.html) when an executable program is called, a [conversion exit](ABENCONVERSION_EXIT_GLOSRY.html) may also be called, and the content truncated on the right at position 255. The conversion exit is skipped and the content not truncated only if the selection parameter is declared with the addition [`NO-DISPLAY`](ABAPPARAMETERS_SCREEN.html).
  * For reasons of readability, it is best to specify a length for the generic types and always use the addition `LENGTH` instead of parentheses.
  * The name of a selection parameter must not be one of the keywords `MODULE`, `SELECT`, or `VALUES` of the dynpro flow logic.
  * If the selection parameter is a [decimal floating point number](ABENDECFLOAT_GLOSRY.html) that does not refer to a data type in the ABAP Dictionary, the output style _scaling retained_ is set for the input field on the selection screen, which means that trailing zeros are retained after the decimal point. If there is a reference to a data type in the ABAP Dictionary, the output style defined there applies.
  * If the type of the selection parameter is a [packed number type](ABENPACKED_NUMBER_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) or a [decimal floating point number type](ABENDECFLOAT_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) defined in the ABAP Dictionary, the property _sign_ must be set for the type property, so that negative numbers can be displayed on the selection screen. This setting is only possible for [DDIC domains](ABENDOMAIN_GLOSRY.html) and not for specifying a built-in type directly for [DDIC data elements](ABENDATA_ELEMENT_GLOSRY.html) or structure components. If a negative number is entered on the selection screen and this property is not set, it is rejected with an error message. If the selection parameter contains a negative number when the selection screen is called, an uncatchable exception occurs.
  * If the selection parameter type is a [decimal floating point number type](ABENDECFLOAT_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) defined in the ABAP Dictionary for which the _output style_ \ _currency amount_ is specified, only numbers with the corresponding amount of decimal places can be entered on the selection screen. If the associated ABAP data object is a number with more decimal places when the selection screen is called, an uncatchable exception is raised. If the output style is _extended currency amount_ , additional decimal places can be displayed.
  * To avoid conflicts with internal names, do not name a selection parameter `o`. The [selection screen events](ABAPAT_SELECTION-SCREEN.html) are not raised properly for that name.
  * **Caution** When evaluating input values from selection screens the common rules for dynpros and comparisons must be considered. This involves the handling of lower case letters by dynpros and the comparison rules for character-like data. For some examples, see [Selection Screens - Traps and Pitfalls](ABENSEL_SCREEN_TRAPS_ABEXA.html).
