single character, _*_ masks any character string, even an empty one. If one of these characters is entered, the selection option is automatically set to _CP_. If _CP_ is set, and all wildcard characters have been removed, the selection option is automatically set to _EQ_ for a user action. This restriction does not apply within the program. When the selection table is evaluated, the column `low` can also contain a string without wildcard characters for the selection options _CP_ and _NP_. * The properties of the elements on the selection screen can be affected with the statement [`screen_options`](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_SCREEN.html) or the statement [`SELECTION-SCREEN`](ABAPSELECTION-SCREEN.html). * The first line of the selection table `selcrit` is linked with the input fields on the selection screen. All lines are displayed in the dialog box for multiple selection. * Each time before the selection screen is sent to the [selection screen event](ABENSELECTION_SCREEN_EVENT_GLOSRY.html)\ `AT SELECTION-SCREEN OUTPUT`, the content of first line in the selection table is transported to the selection screen, with a [conversion exit](ABENCONVERSION_EXIT_GLOSRY.html) being executed if required. If the length of the columns `low` and `high` in the first line of the selection table is greater than 255, the surplus content is cut off on the right. It is only possible for all lines to be transported if the button for multiple selections is selected. A conversion exit might be executed here, and lines might be truncated. Settings for the content of the input fields can be made in [`value_options`](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_VALUE.html). * After a user action on the selection screen, the content of the input fields and the selected settings is transported to the first line and the header line of the selection table. * After a user action on the dialog box for multiple selections, the content of all input fields and the selected settings are transported to the lines of the selection table. These transports convert the content of character-like fields by default into uppercase letters by default, after which a conversion exit is performed, if required. After each transport, various [selection screen events](ABAPAT_SELECTION-SCREEN_EVENTS.html) are raised. * If a value has been entered in the entry field for the upper interval `high`, the system automatically checks whether this value is greater than the lower interval limit `low` following each transport and conversion exit (if performed). If necessary, an [error message](ABENERROR_MESSAGE_GLOSRY.html) is sent. This check can be switched off before the selection screen is sent, using the function module `RS_SELOPT_NO_INTERVAL_CHECK`. * If selection criteria are defined in the selection include of a logical database, further additions [`ldb_options`](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_LDB.html) are necessary or possible. * If, in an executable program, a selection criterion is defined for a component of a node of the linked logical database, declared by [`TABLES`](ABAPTABLES.html) or [`NODES`](ABAPNODES.html), and the node in question is intended for dynamic selection on the logical database, the selection table is passed to the logical database by default after [selection screen processing](ABENSELSCREEN_PROCESSING_GLOSRY.html), where it is handled as a dynamic selection. Furthermore, in this case, the input fields for the corresponding dynamic selection are displayed directly on the selection screen. Therefore, the user does not need to select the fields using the _Dynamic Selections_ function. This transfer can be suppressed using the addition [`NO DATABASE SELECTION`](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_NO_DB_SEL.html). * To avoid undefined system behavior, the header line of a selection table should not be changed in the program. Read access should also be avoided. Instead separate work areas, field symbols, or data references should be used, as always for internal tables. * If a selection criterion is supplied with data when an executable program is called using [`SUBMIT`](ABAPSUBMIT.html), a [conversion exit](ABENCONVERSION_EXIT_GLOSRY.html) is performed for the first line only, while the value of the columns `low` and `high` will be truncated at position 255 for the first line only. If the selection criterion is declared with the addition [`NO-DISPLAY`](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_SCREEN.html), no conversion exit or truncation will be performed for the first line either. * If the type of the selection criterion is a [decimal floating point number](ABENDECFLOAT_GLOSRY.html) that does not refer to a data type in the ABAP Dictionary, the output style _preserve scaling_ is set for the input field of the selection screen. Here, any trailing zeros are preserved in the decimal places. If there is a reference to a data type in the ABAP Dictionary, the output style defined there is used. * If the type of the selection criteria is a [packed number type](ABENPACKED_NUMBER_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) or a [decimal floating point number type](ABENDECFLOAT_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) defined in the ABAP Dictionary, the property _sign_ must be set for the type property, so that negative numbers can be displayed on the selection screen. This setting is only possible for [DDIC domains](ABENDOMAIN_GLOSRY.html) and not for specifying a built-in type directly for [DDIC data elements](ABENDATA_ELEMENT_GLOSRY.html) or structure components. If a negative number is entered on the selection screen and this