the default for this component. In non-text-like components, `AS TEXT` cannot be specified, unless a structured component is specified. In structured components, `AS TEXT` only affects text-like components. Sorting of the internal table `itab` in ascending order by column `col1` and in descending order by column `col2`. The addition `BY (otab)` does not sort the table by the [primary table key](ABAPTYPES_KEYDEF.html), but by the component specified dynamically in the internal table `otab`. Each line of the table `otab` defines a component of the sort key. The priority of the sort is based on the order of the lines in `otab`. If the table `otab` is initial, the table is not sorted. For `otab`, a standard table of the table type `ABAP_SORTORDER_TAB` from the ABAP Dictionary must be specified. The line type of this table is the dictionary structure `ABAP_SORTORDER` with the following components: If a column of `otab` has invalid content, that is, if `NAME` contains the name of a component that does not exist or an incorrect offset/length or if `DESCENDING` and `ASTEXT` do not contain _X_ or the initial value, a catchable exception of the class `CX_SY_DYN_TABLE_ILL_COMP_VAL` is raised. Reading of a database table into a dynamic internal table dynamically and sorting its content dynamically. The name of the database table and the names of the columns by which the table sorted can be entered. The addition `BY expr` can be used to specify an expression or a functional method call `expr` whose result is an internal table with the same type and content as in the preceding addition `BY (otab)`. `expr` is a [general expression position](ABENGENERAL_EXPR_POSITION_GLOSRY.html). The behavior is the same as when specifying a parenthesized internal table directly. Parentheses cannot be placed around `expr`. The above example for specifying `BY (otab)` can be written shorter as shown below. Instead of specifying the unnecessary internal table `order`, it is possible to directly specify the tabular value constructed using the value operator [`VALUE`](ABENCONSTRUCTOR_EXPRESSION_VALUE.html) of the required content. [Sorting Internal Tables Dynamically](ABENSORT_ITAB_EXP_ABEXA.html). `CX_SY_DYN_TABLE_ILL_LINE_TYPE` `CX_SY_DYN_TABLE_ILL_COMP_VAL` * Numeric and byte-like components are sorted by their values. * Character-like components are sorted by default by their binary representation ([code page](ABENCODEPAGE_GLOSRY.html)). Textual sorting of character-like components can be performed using the addition `AS TEXT`. * The sizes of other component types are compared using the corresponding rules for [reference variables](ABENLOGEXP_RULES_OPERANDS_REF.html), [structures](ABENLOGEXP_RULES_OPERANDS_STRUC.html), and [internal tables](ABENLOGEXP_RULES_OPERANDS_ITAB.html). * In standard tables, the [primary table index](ABENPRIMARY_TABLE_INDEX_GLOSRY.html) is applied in accordance with the sort order * In hashed tables, the internal order is modified. This internal order was defined either by inserting lines into the internal table or by a previous sort using the statement `SORT`. * if the addition `BY` is used to specify a different sort key as the initial part of the table key. * if the addition `DESCENDING` is used. * if the addition `AS TEXT` is used. * if an attribute of an object is specified as a component in the addition `BY`. * It is best to specify an explicit sort key behind `BY`, if possible. An implicit sort behind the [primary table key](ABENTABLE_KEY_GLOSRY.html), which can itself, in standard tables, be defined implicitly as a [standard key](ABENSTANDARD_KEY_GLOSRY.html), makes a program difficult to understand and possibly unpredictable. * When using the primary table key, it should be noted that this key can be the [standard key](ABENSTANDARD_KEY_GLOSRY.html), which can also have unexpected consequences: * If the line type is structured, the table is sorted by all character-like and byte-like components. * The standard key of a standard table can be [empty](ABENITAB_EMPTY_KEY.html). * Secondary table keys cannot be specified as sort keys. * Sorting using `SORT` does not affect the assignment of lines to a [secondary table index](ABENSECONDARY_TABLE_INDEX_GLOSRY.html). * It is possible to sort columns with [reference types](ABENREFERENCE_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) but doing this is questionable. Here, it is important to note that no comparison rule is defined for non-initial invalid references. An internal table can only be sorted by valid or initial references. A non-initial, invalid reference leads to a runtime error if it is involved in sorting. * The addition [`GROUP BY`](ABAPLOOP_AT_ITAB_GROUP_BY.html) of the statement [`LOOP AT itab`](ABAPLOOP_AT_ITAB.html) or of a [`FOR` expression](ABENFOR_GROUPS_OF.html) also has the additions `ASCENDING` and `DESCENDING` for sorting groups. These can be used as an extension to the statement `SORT` if its sort criteria are not sufficient. * For the latter see the [executable example](ABENLOOP_GROUP_BY_SORT_ABEXA.html). * The system class `CL_ABAP_ITAB_UTILITIES` contains method `VIRTUAL_SORT`, which can be used to virtually sort a set of internal tables. See also the executable [examples](ABENVIRTUAL_SORT_ABEXAS.html) listed below. * [Sorting Internal Tables](ABENSORT_STABLE_ABEXA.html) * [Sorting Internal Tables with Secondary Keys](ABENSORT_ITAB_SEC_KEY_ABEXA.html) * The order can depend on the platform. * Multiple sorting of a table using the same sort key can produce a different order each time the table is sorted. * The result of a sorting without the addition