property is not set, the system rejects it with an error message. If the columns `low` or `high` contain a negative number when the selection screen is called, an uncatchable exception is raised. * If the type of the selection criterion is a [decimal floating point number type](ABENDECFLOAT_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) defined in the ABAP Dictionary for which the _output style_ \ _currency amount_ is specified, only numbers with the corresponding amount of decimal places can be entered on the selection screen. If a corresponding ABAP data object contains a number with too many decimal places when the selection screen is called, an uncatchable exception is raised. If the output style is _extended currency amount_ , additional decimal places can be displayed. * The selection option _CP_ is selected automatically when entering escape characters and is undone when removing escape characters only after user input is made in the associated input field on the selection screen. Escape characters in fields whose content is passed to the selection screen from the program do not cause the selection option to be selected automatically. * The columns `sign` and `option` of a selection table declared using `SELECT-OPTIONS` are not related to data types in the ABAP Dictionary. In the case of [ranges tables](ABENRANGES_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) defined in the ABAP Dictionary, these columns refer to the data elements `DDSIGN` and `DDOPTION`. * To avoid conflicts with internal names, do not name a selection criterion `o`. The [selection screen events](ABAPAT_SELECTION-SCREEN.html) are not raised properly for that name. * **Caution** When evaluating input values from selection screens the common rules for dynpros and comparisons must be considered. This involves the handling of lower case letters by dynpros and the comparison rules for character-like data. For some examples, see [Selection Screens - Traps and Pitfalls](ABENSEL_SCREEN_TRAPS_ABEXA.html).