`AS TEXT` depends on the operating system of the [host computer](ABENHOST_COMPUTER_GLOSRY.html) of the current [AS instance](ABENAS_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html). Although the sequence of individual letters that belong to the activated language remains the same across different operating systems, there are differences in terms of the characters that do not belong to the alphabet of the activated language. Even if only the letters from the alphabet of the activated language are used, some slight differences occur when sorting complete words. Furthermore, the order of uppercase and lowercase letters is specific to the operating system. * The use of the addition `AS TEXT` usually makes the statement [`CONVERT TEXT`](ABAPCONVERT_TEXT.html) superfluous in the context of internal tables. * A sort without the addition `AS TEXT` is considerably faster than a sort with this addition. If it is certain that both sorts produce the same order, the addition `AS TEXT` is not necessary. The latter can be the case if, for example, text-like components contain characters from the [ASCII](ABENASCII_GLOSRY.html) character set only and only lowercase or uppercase letters. * If the line type of the internal table is not known statically, the components can only be specified dynamically and not directly. * Instead of individual dynamic components, an internal table can be specified directly as `otab` or as the result of an expression `expr` as a dynamic sort key (see additions 5 and 6). Using a table like this has the advantage that any exceptions are catchable. When specifying the table, the number of components of the sort key is also dynamic. In contrast, when individual dynamic components are used, a character-like data object must be specified for any required component, which is ignored if it only contains blank characters. * An [obsolete variant](ABAPSORT_ITAB_OBSOLETE.html) allows field symbols to also be specified for the components outside of classes, for standard tables. * `NAME` of the type [`SSTRING`](ABENDDIC_BUILTIN_TYPES.html) * for specifying a component of the sort key. The component is specified in the form _comp_name[+off(len)]_ , where _comp_name_ must be the name of a component in `itab` in uppercase letters. The component name may contain [offsets and lengths](ABENOFFSET_LENGTH.html), structure component selectors, and component selectors for assigning structured data objects and attributes in classes or objects. * `DESCENDING` of the type `CHAR` with length 1 * for specifying the sort direction for the current component. If `DESCENDING` is initial, the sort is performed in ascending order. If `DESCENDING` has the value _X_ , the table is sorted in descending order. * `ASTEXT` of the type `CHAR` with length 1 * for the text sorting of the current component. If `ASTEXT` has the value _X_ , the sort is performed as with the addition `AS TEXT`. This is only possible for character-like components. If `ASTEXT` is initial, character-like components are sorted in accordance with their binary representation. * The addition `BY (otab)` cannot be combined with `BY compi`. * When using the addition `BY (otab)`, it is not possible to use `DESCENDING` or `AS TEXT` to specify a descending sort direction or textual sorting for all components. * If a single parenthesized data object `(dobj)` is specified after the addition `BY`, its data type decides whether its content is used to specify a [single dynamic component](ABENITAB_COMPONENTS.html) or multiple components. In either case, no sort takes place if `dobj` is initial. * _Cause:_ The table `otab` has an invalid line type. _Runtime error:_ \ `DYN_TABLE_ILL_LINE_TYPE` * _Cause:_ A column of the table `otab` contains an invalid value. _Runtime error:_ \ `DYN_TABLE_ILL_COMP_VAL` * _Cause:_ A sort criterion specified dynamically in the form `(name)` with the explicit addition `AS TEXT` is not text-like. _Runtime error:_ \ `SORT_AS_TEXT_BAD_DYN_TYPE` * _Cause:_ A field symbol used as a dynamic sort criterion with an explicit addition `AS TEXT` is not text-like. _Runtime error:_ \ `SORT_AS_TEXT_BAD_FS_TYPE` * _Cause:_ A field symbol used as a dynamic sort criterion does not point to the header line of the internal table to be sorted. _Runtime error:_ \ `SORT_ITAB_FIELD_INVALID` * _Cause:_ For a table of the type `SORTED TABLE`, the sort key does not match a beginning piece of the table key. _Runtime error:_ \ `SORT_SORT_ILL_KEY_ORDER` * _Cause:_ The additions `DESCENDING` and `AS TEXT` are not allowed for tables of the type `SORTED TABLE`. _Runtime error:_ \ `SORT_SORT_ILLEGAL` * _Cause:_ Sorting method is not external (E) or internal (I) _Runtime error:_ \ `SORT_ILLEGAL_MODE`