_Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_CAST_COMPLEX_TYPE` * _Cause:_ The source field is longer than 16 bytes and cannot be interpreted as a type `p` field. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_CAST_P_TOO_LARGE` * _Cause:_ The alignment of field `f` is too short for the type specified in `TYPE`. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_CAST_WRONG_ALIGNMENT` * _Cause:_ The length of field `f` does not match the type specified in `TYPE`. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_CAST_WRONG_ALIGNMENT` * _Cause:_ The type specified in `TYPE` is unknown. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_CAST_WRONG_TYPE` * _Cause:_ A maximum of 14 columns is allowed. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_DECIMALS_TOO_HIGH` * _Cause:_ Decimal places are allowed only for type `p`. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_DECIMALS_WRONG_TYPE` * _Cause:_ A length of 0 was specified for field `f`. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_LENGTH_0` * _Cause:_ A length less than 0 was specified for field `f`. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_LENGTH_NEGATIVE` * _Cause:_ An offset or length was specified for field `f` and the data type of the assigning field does not allow partial access. (This is the case for data types I, F, and P.) _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_OFFSET_NOTALLOWED` * _Cause:_ In the area addressed in the offset and length specifications for field `f`, deep components exist (data references, object references, strings, internal tables), which may not be overwritten. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_OFF+LENGTH_ILLEGAL_CAST` * _Cause:_ Field `f` is not a data reference. However, a data reference was expected. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_REFERENCE_EXPECTED` * _Cause:_ The type of the source field and the target type do not match exactly in offset and type in those components that are strings, tables, or references. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_STRUCTURE_ILLEGAL_CAST` * _Cause:_ Substrings cannot be assigned to a field symbol. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_SUBSTRING_NOT_ALLOWED` * _Cause:_ The field symbol is typed and the type of the assigned field is incompatible with it. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_TYPE_CONFLICT` * _Cause:_ The type of the source field contains strings, tables, or references. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_TYPE_ILLEGAL_CAST` * _Cause:_ The type of the source field is a structure not compatible with the target type. _Runtime error:_ \ `ASSIGN_UC_STRUCT_CONFLICT`