# SELECT-OPTIONS | ABAP Keyword Documentation [Short Reference](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_SHORTREF.html) SELECT-OPTIONS selcrit [FOR {dobj|(name)}](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_FOR.html)\ [[screen_options](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_SCREEN.html)]\ [[value_options](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_VALUE.html)]\ [[NO DATABASE SELECTION](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_NO_DB_SEL.html)]\ [[ldb_options](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_LDB.html)]. This declares a [selection criterion](ABENSELECTION_CRITERION_GLOSRY.html)\ `selcrit` for a data object `dobj` or a type specified in `name`. Selection criteria are components of a [selection screen](ABENSELECTION_SCREEN_GLOSRY.html), which are assigned a [selection table](ABENSELECTION_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) in the ABAP program, as well as two input fields and a pushbutton for multiple selection. The name of the selection criterion `selcrit` is limited to a maximum of 8 characters. This statement is allowed in the global declaration part of [executable programs](ABENEXECUTABLE_PROGRAM_GLOSRY.html), [function pools](ABENFUNCTION_POOL_GLOSRY.html), and [module pools](ABENMODUL_POOL_GLOSRY.html). In function pools and module pools, the statement is only allowed within the definition of a [standalone selection screen](ABAPSELECTION-SCREEN_DEFINITION.html). In executable programs, the statement is otherwise automatically assigned to the [standard selection screen](ABAPSELECTION-SCREEN_STANDARD.html). The statement `SELECT-OPTIONS` has the following effect: * The statement declares a [selection table](ABENSELECTION_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) in the program with the name `selcrit`. A selection table is an internal [standard table](ABENSTANDARD_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) with [header line](ABENHEADER_LINE_GLOSRY.html) and [standard key](ABENSTANDARD_KEY_GLOSRY.html). Selection tables can be used to store [ranges conditions](ABENRANGES_CONDITION_GLOSRY.html) that link multiple comparison expressions with each other. The content of selection tables can be evaluated in a [comparison expression](ABENCOMPARISON_EXPRESSION_GLOSRY.html) with the [comparison operator](ABENCOMP_OPERATOR_GLOSRY.html)\ [`IN`](ABENLOGEXP_SELECT_OPTION.html) or in a [similar expression](ABENWHERE_LOGEXP_SELTAB.html) of a `WHERE` condition in ABAP SQL. Selection tables have the same layout as [ranges tables](ABENRANGES_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) and have the following four columns: * `sign` of type `c` and length 1. The content of `sign` determines for every line whether the result of the condition formulated in the column is included or excluded in the entire resulting set for all lines. Valid values are _I_ for include and _E_ for exclude. * `option` of type `c` with length 2. `option` contains the selection option for the condition of the line in the form of comparison operators. Valid operators are _EQ_ , _NE_ , _GE_ , _GT_ , _LE_ , _LT_ , _CP_ , and _NP_ , if the column `high` is initial, and _BT_ , _NB_ , if column `high` is not initial. For the options _CP_ and _NP_ , the data type of the columns `low` and `high` must be `c`, and special rules apply to input on the selection screen. * `low` of the data type defined after [`FOR`](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_FOR.html). This column is intended for the comparison value in single comparisons or the lower interval limit for interval selections. * `high` of the data type defined after [`FOR`](ABAPSELECT-OPTIONS_FOR.html). This column is intended for the upper interval limit for interval selections. * Two input fields with the name `selcrit-low` and `selcrit-high` are created on the current selection screen using a matching DDIC data type in a new line at positions 35 and 60. The length of the input fields depends on the length of the data type, which is defined after `FOR`. The maximum length of the input fields is 255. The maximum visible length of the input fields is between 10 and 18, depending on the nesting depth in framed blocks. If the length is greater than the maximum visible length, the content is displayed as movable. * An automatically generated output field is displayed in the first possible position in front of the first input field as a label with a length of between 20 and 30 depending on the nesting depth in framed blocks. The output field contains either the name of the `selcrit` selection criterion or the selection text to which the selection criterion is assigned in the text elements of the program. If the user requests field or input help on the output field using the function key F1 or F4, the same output appears as if one of the input fields were chosen. * A _multiple selection_ pushbutton is created after the second input field. If this pushbutton is selected, a dialog box with four [tabstrip control pages](ABENTAB_PAGE_GLOSRY.html) appears, in which the input fields are again displayed in tabular form in [Table Controls](ABENTABLE_CONTROL_GLOSRY.html). The tabstrip pages are separated based on individual value comparison, interval selections, and settings for the column `sign`. * Users can select an input field with a double-click on the selection screen or use the dialog box for multiple selection. On the selection screen, the value of the column `sign` can also be chosen. On the dialog box for multiple selection, this is done by selecting the respective tabstrip page. If the selection option is not equal to _EQ_ or _BT_ , it is displayed as an icon in front of the first input field. The color of the icon is green if the content of the column `sign` is _I_ , and red if it is _E_. * The selection options _CP_ and _NP_ can be selected only if the first input field contains at least one of the wildcard characters _*_ or _+_. _+_ masks a