# SORT itab | ABAP Keyword Documentation [Short Reference](ABAPSORT_ITAB_SHORTREF.html) SORT itab [STABLE]\ {\ {\ [ASCENDING|DESCENDING]\ [AS TEXT]\ [BY {[comp1](ABENITAB_COMPONENTS.html)\ [ASCENDING|DESCENDING]\ [AS TEXT]}\ {[comp2](ABENITAB_COMPONENTS.html)\ [ASCENDING|DESCENDING]\ [AS TEXT]}\ ... ]\ }\ |\ {\ [BY (otab)]\ }\ |\ {\ [BY expr]\ }\ }. 1. `... STABLE` 2. `... ASCENDING|DESCENDING` 3. `... AS TEXT` 4. `... BY compi [ASCENDING|DESCENDING]\ [AS TEXT]` 5. `... BY (otab)` 6. `... BY expr` This statement sorts an internal table `itab` according to the content of its components. Here, size comparisons are performed by default using the general [comparison rules](ABENLOGEXP_RULES.html), that is: If no explicit sort key is specified using the addition `BY`, the internal table `itab` is sorted by the [primary table key](ABENPRIMARY_TABLE_KEY_GLOSRY.html). The priority of the sort depends on the order in which the [key fields](ABAPTYPES_KEYDEF.html) are specified in the table definition. In [standard keys](ABENSTANDARD_KEY_GLOSRY.html), the sort is prioritized according to the order of the key fields in the line type of the table. If the primary table key of a standard table is [empty](ABENITAB_EMPTY_KEY.html), no sort takes place. If this is known statically, the syntax check produces a warning. Sorting is unstable by default, which means that the relative order of lines that do not differ in sort keys is not preserved when they are sorted. The order can be different depending on the platform or when sorted multiple times. The addition `STABLE` can be used for stable sorting. `itab` expects a [standard table](ABENSTANDARD_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) or a [hashed table](ABENHASHED_TABLE_GLOSRY.html). In both table categories, `SORT` specifies the order in which a subsequent [`LOOP`](ABAPLOOP_AT_ITAB.html) runs without the addition `USING KEY`. Sorted tables cannot be sorted using `SORT` and applying the statement `SORT` to [sorted tables](ABENSORTED_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) is forbidden by the syntax. If it is not determined until runtime that a sorted table is to be sorted, an uncatchable exception is raised if this action could modify the existing sorting. The latter occurs in the following cases: Otherwise, the statement `SORT` is ignored for sorted tables. Simplest form of the statement `SORT` for internal tables. The hashed table `carriers` is sorted by its primary key, that is by the column `carrid`. `STABLE` is used to achieve stable sorting, which means that the relative order of lines that do not differ in the sort key remains unchanged in the sort. If the addition `STABLE` is not specified, the order is not stable: Stable sorting of the internal table `flights` by columns `cityfrom`\ `cityto`, whereby the order within this sorting with respect to `carrid` and `connid` is preserved. The addition `ASCENDING` or `DESCENDING` can be used to specify the sort direction explicitly as ascending or descending. If neither of the additions is specified, the table is sorted in ascending order. This sort direction can be overwritten after the addition `BY` for components listed individually here. The internal table `itab` is sorted by its primary key in descending order, that is, by its lines. Next, [`LOOP AT GROUP BY`](ABAPLOOP_AT_ITAB_GROUP_BY.html) can be used for grouping and determine the number of lines per group. The addition `AS TEXT` specifies that [text-like](ABENTEXTLIKE_DATA_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) components are sorted in accordance with the [locale](ABENLOCALE_GLOSRY.html) of the current [text environment](ABENTEXT_ENVIRONMENT_GLOSRY.html). If `AS TEXT` is not specified, text-like components are sorted according to the encoding in the code page of the current text environment. This can be overwritten after the addition `BY` for the components listed individually here. The text environment is set when an [internal session](ABENINTERNAL_SESSION_GLOSRY.html) is opened or by using the statement [`SET LOCALE`](ABAPSET_LOCALE.html). Sorting of a [hashed table](ABENHASHED_TABLE_GLOSRY.html)\ `text_tab` by the order in the code page and in accordance with the locale of the current [text environment](ABENTEXT_ENVIRONMENT.html). If a western European text environment is configured, the sorts produce the orders `Miller`, `Moller`, `Muller`, `Moller` and `Miller`, `Moller`, `Moller`, `Muller` respectively (see also the [executable example](ABENSET_LOCALE_ABEXA.html) for `SET LOCALE`). [Sorting Internal Tables Alphabetically](ABENSORT_TEXT_ABEXA.html) The addition `BY compi` does not sort the table by the [primary table key](ABAPTYPES_KEYDEF.html), but by the components `comp1 comp2...` specified after it. The components are specified as described under [Specifying Components](ABENITAB_COMPONENTS.html). If all components are specified using `name` variables and these contain only blanks, no sort takes place. The priority of the sort depends on the order in which the components `comp1 comp2 ...` are specified from left to right. The specified components can also be duplicated or overlapping. The specified components can have any data type. The relevant [comparison rules](ABENLOGEXP_RULES.html) apply to the evaluation. If neither of the additions `ASCENDING` or `DESCENDING` are specified after `compi`, the sort direction specified by addition 2 is used. If one of the additions `ASCENDING` or `DESCENDING` is specified, it overwrites the default for this component. If the addition `AS TEXT` is not specified after a text-like component `compi`, the default specified by addition 3 is used. If the addition `AS TEXT` is specified after a text-like component, it overwrites